The pumpkin that'll last for forever. Finally. There's a count. Today, we're taking a glass blowing class. I'm sweating already.

We've worked with a lot of materials before, but we've only scratched the surface when it comes to glass. And that's because it's a little intimidating. Yeah. Let's take our jackets off. But also very exciting.

So we're at Wimberly Glassworks with
instructor, our Nick. So I am Nicholas Noble or Nick. I've been working here at Wimberly Glassworks for about three years. I've been blowing glass in total for about nine. I got my degree in glass blowing from the University of South Alabama and excited to do
these classes with y'all. So it sounds like you know what you're doing. Sometimes. This video is brought to you by Squarespace, the all in one platform for all your website needs.
So this is the flower that y'all are gonna be making. This is called a trumpet flower. This is the first thing I ever
learned
how
to make in glass. It looks fancy. This is
the starting thing? This is the
first thing you'll learn. When Nick first showed us the flower we were gonna make, I was like, that's very advanced. Do you know where we're coming from?
Don't know. This is just my color mix. It's called the kitchen sink mix because it's every color we own basically. First thing I gotta do is grab a little bit of out
of the
furnace. Inside of here is just a big pot of liquid glass. Gather it up. Just like you'd get honey out a honey pot. Because at this temperature, the glass moves around
a lot like honey does. Jeez. Yeah. That's kind
of nerve wracking. So I'll pick
up a little bit of color.
Fun. All the color is is crushed colored glass. So it sticks and then it melts. And that's where we get
the color from. I can see it with my eyes, but the camera's like, that's a
white void. You always have to be turning. Because if I stop turning, it just falls. The first thing I'm gonna do is I'm gonna smush it flat a little bit, give ours a little disc of glass. We're gonna take the tweezers.

We're gonna just pinch all the
way around. That creates like
the little petals? Just gives texture. Kinda like you're crimping
up pie crust. A hot dangerous melty
pie crust. Exactly.
Eat it
back up. Generally on something this size, we'll have about forty five seconds to maybe sixty seconds to work it before it's too hard to work So now is when I turn it into the flower. So just pinch it
out a little bit.
Oh. Kind of making that disc of color a
little bit bigger.
Yeah. Then I can Woah. Start to
pull out by step. Oh my god. Wow. So you're kind of letting gravity
help you there. Gravity is
one of
our best tools when you learn how
to use it. Oh my god. It looks like it's gonna fall. Oh,
it's supposed to fall. You're crimp
it a little bit. Okay. Oh, wow. We're gonna be doing that? Oh my god.

And there it is.
Wow. So there's the flower. Now I'm just gonna knock it off.
We'll drop the water. There it is. Wow. That was exciting. Too exciting.

That was really exciting. That happened really fast. How sweaty are you? I'm sweaty already, which makes me a little nervous.
Are you ready? I'm ready.
When it came time for me to do the first flower, was really nervous because I was filming the demonstration and I was like, am I getting everything? Oh, how's the shot look? And then was like, how much did I retain? How much knowledge? And I was nervous that I was gonna have to solo the whole flower.

Yeah. And like How how much do I squish it? How much
do I twist it? I will reiterate
as we go.
Thank you. What color would like? Blue. Blue?
Light or dark? Light blue, please. We have. I'm very excited for you, Caitlin.
Then here is about 400 pounds
of liquid glass. Do y'all just have to, like, refill it? Once week. Once a
week? It stays on
all the
time. Wow. Okay. So grab the pipe blumi behind one on top, one on bottom, keep it rotating. Set it down lightly.

Rotate it
towards yourself. To be completely honest, I don't know if it came across in video, but Nick was doing 90% of the turning.